>> Bianca: Our next topic is my favourite,
recursion.
And so, at its core, recursion is
just when a function calls itself.
However, as you may know if you've
worked with recursion before,
there's a little more to that.
Recursion is a technique.
It's also a mindset.
It's a way of approaching a problem.
>> Bianca: [LAUGH] With your head and
also you have to feel it in your heart.
So hopefully we'll wrap
our mind around it and
then we'll start to gain some intuition
around the recursive technique.
And this concept underlies all the rest
of this workshop, so ask questions,
slow me down to make sure that
we're all on the same page so
that as we move through the content,
no one gets left behind.
Recursion is one of those
things that's pretty abstract,
pretty tricky, so ask lots of questions.
I really appreciate it
when people do that.
All right.
So why do we care about recursion?
Why do we go through this pain?
So it's an elegant solution.
It can keep your code D.R.Y. which is do
not repeat yourself, which is contrasted
with W.E.T. which stands for
we enjoy typing or write everything twice.
That's a thing that you don't
wanna do when you're programming.
And it's expected CS knowledge and,
believe it or
not, it's actually an easier
solution sometimes.
And we'll get to a point
when we get to trees and
graphs when it's actually easier to use
recursion versus an iterative approach.
And here's a common, I don't know.
Here's a picture that I
like about recursion.
So it starts with this question.
How many people are in your organization?
And then we break this problem into
smaller problems, and this guy says me and
all our members of department one and
department two, etc.
And then you talk to the guy in
department one and he says me and
all members in project one and
project two.
And that goes all the way down to just me.
So we break down the problem all the way
to the simplest case, the base case,
where it's just one person and
then you add all of that work up and
you get your result, which is the total
number of people in the organization.
And so that's sort of the core
concept of recursion.